---
title: "2.1.0 ctrtransfer"
permalink: /2.1.0-ctrtransfer.html
---

This section is only required for Old 3DS or 2DS. If you are on a New 3DS, skip to [Installing arm9loaderhax](installing-arm9loaderhax).
{: .notice--primary}

If you downgrade to 2.1.0 on a 2DS and left Wireless Communication off, you can re-enable the wireless by removing the battery for several seconds then booting back up.
{: .notice--info}

Your device may not show your installed games after the ctrtransfer. This is due to the tickets being removed by the transfer, which is why you back them up. They will be restored at the end of the guide.
{: .notice--info}

Never format a 2DS while on a version <6.0.0 or you will be unable to complete initial setup and will BRICK!
{: .notice--danger}

#### Overview of steps

In this section, we will be flashing your console's [CTRNAND](https://www.3dbrew.org/wiki/Flash_Filesystem#CTR_partition) partition to 2.1.0 in order to take advantage of an oversight in 2.1.0 for the purpose of extracting the [OTP](otp-info) unique to your console. This OTP file is required to install arm9loaderhax, and **cannot** be shared with other consoles.

This is accomplished by [installing a premade ctrtransfer image](https://www.reddit.com/r/3dshacks/comments/4zhe4a/) containing 2.1.0, copying your console specific files (such as `moveable.sed` and `SecureInfo_A`) to it, then fixing the title databases.

The OTP is a requirement to use arm9loaderhax on the Old 3DS, while the New 3DS uses an exploit in the way keys are encrypted on the device in order to install arm9loaderhax without the OTP.

#### What you need

* You will need to have booted into Decrypt9
* The 2.1.0 ctrtransfer image for your device and region     
*(if your device is not from one of these regions, just pick one)*:
  +    [Old 3DS or 2DS 2.1.0 - EUR - ctrtransfer](torrents/2.1.0-4E_ctrtransfer_o3ds.torrent) - <code class="highlighterrouge"><a href="magnet:?xt=urn:btih:89acc9c1b488b8b38251de0ddf07975d6bd354a1"><i class="fa fa-magnet" aria-hidden="true"></i></a></code>     
  +    [Old 3DS or 2DS 2.1.0 - JPN - ctrtransfer](torrents/2.1.0-4J_ctrtransfer_o3ds.torrent) - <code class="highlighterrouge"><a href="magnet:?xt=urn:btih:3dbb9c9c85a33c6242f424dcbaebcacdd8a5912b"><i class="fa fa-magnet" aria-hidden="true"></i></a></code>     
  +    [Old 3DS or 2DS 2.1.0 - USA - ctrtransfer](torrents/2.1.0-4U_ctrtransfer_o3ds.torrent) - <code class="highlighterrouge"><a href="magnet:?xt=urn:btih:1609ce9ee7b0ed9b6dea0b3e7cca4fc52dad6ff4"><i class="fa fa-magnet" aria-hidden="true"></i></a></code>

#### Instructions

##### Section I - Prep work

You should be in Decrypt9 for these steps.

1. Press (Select) on the main menu to eject your SD card, then put it in your computer
2. Copy the 2.1.0 `.bin` and `.bin.sha` from the ctrtransfer zip to the `/files9/` folder on your SD card
3. Reinsert your SD card into your 3DS
4. Press (B) to get to the Decrypt9 main menu

##### Section II - Backup tickets

6. Go to "Ticket/Titlekey Options", then select "Ticket Dump (SysNAND)"
7. Press (Select) to eject your SD card, then put it in your computer
8. Delete all `.tik` files in the `/files9/` folder that **do not** start with "00-"
9. Leave all the `.tik` files that do start with "00-" in the folder
  + If none start with "00-", then just continue.
10. Reinsert your SD card into your 3DS, then press (B)

##### Section III - ctrtransfer

4. Go to "SysNAND Options", then "CTRNAND Transfer", then "Auto CTRNAND Transfer"
5. Select the 2.1.0 ctrtransfer image when prompted by pressing (A)
6. If you do not already have a NAND backup, **backup SysNAND to `NANDmin.bin` when prompted by pressing (A)**
7. Allow the transfer process to proceed automatically, this may take some time
8. Once the transfer is complete, press (B) to go back
9. Press (Select) to eject your SD card
9. Delete the 2.1.0 ctrtransfer image `.bin` and `.bin.sha` from the `/files9/` folder on your SD card
19. Clear Home Menu's extdata by navigating to the following folder on your SD card: `/Nintendo 3DS/(32 Character ID)/(32 Character ID)/extdata/00000000/`
    + EUR Region: Delete `00000098`
    + JPN Region: Delete `00000082`
    + USA Region: Delete `0000008f`
    + CHN Region: Delete `000000A1`
    + KOR Region: Delete `000000A9`
    + TWN Region: Delete `000000B1`
12. Reinsert your SD card into your 3DS
11. Press (Start) to reboot

___

*(Screen distortions or discolorations are normal for some devices while on 2.1.0, they will go away once you restore your backup)*
{: .notice--info}

Continue to [Installing arm9loaderhax](installing-arm9loaderhax).
{: .notice--primary}
